
### Anaya Packirisamy, Drona Chaitanya Reddy Gangarapu and Srilekha Pothula
### Professor Agar
### Database Management Systems 
### 8th May 2024

# College Management System

  The application that we created is a college management website. The purpose of this website is to store essential information for a college. This includes information about students, teachers, tuition payments, student grades, majors etc. 
  #### The login for an administrator of the website is username: admin, password: 12345
  We used an entity-relationship diagram in Chen notation in order to lay out all the entities, attributes and their relationships. We chose this notation in particular because the differences in shapes for entities, relationships and attributes provides a distinction that is easy to spot at a glance and makes understanding the database simpler. This helped us design the relational schema with which we implemented our application. We first got our entities and their attributes then figured out the relationships between them. After that, we started to normalize the relations. Initially we had seven tables which were: student, teacher, class, paid tuition, grades, breakdown of the tuition and grades. Once we established a primary key for each table, we analyzed each table to bring it to the second normal form. We came up with 3 additional tables: major, department and class enrollment. These additional tables and some modifications of the existing attributes in our other tables got us to the second normal form. We then eliminated attributes that did not functionally depend on the primary key for each table and were left with a normalized relational scheme in the third normal form. Our database design was then ready to be implemented for the application.
  To code our application we used Java as that is the programming software we were most comfortable with. We made a connection with our Java application to an SQL database using Java Database Connectivity (JDBC). We coded our queries within the programming software and created a database for our website in SQL. We added functions to create, read, update and delete records within the application. There are options to add students and teachers to the database with their identification numbers being randomly generated. There are options to view all students and teachers in the database. One can add grades and also pay tuition for specific students by choosing the student’s ID number from the drop down menu. One can see student grades and also a breakdown of the tuition. There are also “update student” and “update teacher” options in which student or teacher information can be modified. We also added images to our application to mimic real college management web applications to the best of our abilities. We tried to make our application do the most important things that are necessary for a college management system. Through these choices, we were able to create a web application with a database of moderate complexity.
